Hello, everyone.
I'm Qiang Fu from Bilibili group.
My topic is video transcoding
in web browsers.
5-p
I will introduce several feasible ways to achieve the goal
and provide a suggestion for Web API to make video
transcoding easier for web developers.
8-p
Bilibili is based in China and our applications provides a video
content for users. You may think of it as YouTube in China.
10-p
Okay. Now let's begin.
slide-2
Why we need to focus on the topic. To guide a new way using
browsers, we need it.
13-p
The first thing is about video preview.
Some video formats like
AVI or FLV cannot be played directly by
HTML.
Yes. We can implement a player by WebAssembly or JavaScript
for these videos
but what if we transcode them to MP4 webM format,
then we can use a video tag to play on HTML. It is simple.
21-p
The other thing related to the details about media
production, for some videos,
only small adjustments are required.
We could offer help to change
to change the resolution and frame rate or some other
parameters of a video to meet the (?) for uploading.
Our goal is to get a new way to, via transcoding.
slide-3
The basic steps for transcoding can be concluded as the following:
passing the input file to a demuxer to get to the streams
and encoded video chunks. Then passing the video chunks to a decoder
to get the video frame. There maybe
we need to perform some operations on the frame.
After passing it the opposite way,
finally we get the output file.
35-p
I summarized the process for ffmpeg,
but how can we use it in browser?
slide-4
There is a popular way for web developers to experience
video transcoding.
WebAssembly can help. After compiling the source code of
ffmpeg to WebAssembly, run it in a browser
and give it a quant,
we get the video we need. that's really simple at first sight.
43-p
But WebAssembly looks like a black box and developers
don't care about the inner details. Let's see how it works.
slide-5
Although WebAssembly is a black box,
we still need some preparations. First of all,
familiarity with ffmpeg. Then we need to study
how EMScripten works and the best basic design concepts.
The last step is to run WebAssembly in browsers.
50-p
After you finish the steps and get to demo a few common
questions will be there. Why it is so slow,
why the same amount can give such huge difference on
performance between browsers and OS. How could I make it
faster?
55-p
The answer is tough. WebAssembly has done improvements,
just like supporting SIMD
and multi-threads. To enjoy these new features, we usually
check the configure of EMScripten and ffmpeg.
And luckily the source coder of ffmpeg should be modified.
It is really professional and tough for web developers.
slide-6
Let's talk about this other way
where we can divide the process of transcoding into different
parts. Each part may have unique solution.
64-p
For example,
the demuxer and muxer can be realized by JavaScript,
encoder and decoder can use WebCodecs API simply.
The video frame can be drawn on canvas of WebGL.
68-p
Tested in an integrated way, everything looks fine.
We splice each part like Lego blocks.
70-p
I searched the GitHub for some repositories.
Finally,
I could transcode the video in the integrated way.
The demuxer and decoders are integrated as a video player.
To reduce the size of WebAssembly.
I imported some libraries for ffmpeg and ingested some flux.
The output of the player is video frames in RGB
or YUV format.
I pass it to WebCodecs API to get the encoded video chunk.
Then the chunks load through a muxer for making video in WebM format.
Finally I got the local video I need.
Sounds perfect.
slide-8
So integrated way seems flexible enough.
I could even change the frame in canvas by JavaScript,
just like what filters do in ffmpeg. WebCodecs is cool.
And it has option for hardware acceleration.
The developers don't need to focus on the details.
87-p
The only concern is the muxer. Every muxer is different
and I have to collect solutions for supporting MP4,
webM and other formats independently.
It takes a lot of time.
slide-9
What if an official muxer API is provided, that's
my suggestion. Its design can follow the WebCodecs.
93-p
The Web will get the following benefits. First,
it will complete the roadmap of media percentage on browsers.
And if we want to popularize some video formats,
like WebM, we should reduce the difficulty for producing those.
97-p
The most valuable thing for me is to provide a better coding
experience.
The source code of ffmpeg is really tough and you need a lot
of time to become a real expert. That's all my contents.
Thank you for watching.